These files will utilize public data sources to generate MatrixMarket
files that can be read by AnnotatedMatrix. The generated matrix files
are not included in the installation because they are generally large,
and many variants can be produced. It is likely that most users will
not want all the files. The generators allow users to decide which
files to create.

* [hgncGeneSets.pl](hgncGeneSets.pl) - Downloads symbol and identifier
  information from http://www.genenames.org/ and makes both
  Symbol-Accession lookup maps as well as Accession-Accession maps.
* [pubMedExtractor.pl](pubMedExtractor.pl) - Creates a supporting
  SQLite database to provide dates and titles for the PubMed ontology
  generated by `entrezGeneSets.pl`. Bulk parses XML files from
  Medline.
* [entrezGeneSets.pl](entrezGeneSets.pl) - Downloads data from
  ftp.ncbi.nih.gov to make canonical mapping matrices for Entrez and
  RefSeq identifiers. Desirable to run `pubMedExtractor.pl` first in
  order to have PubMed metadata available.


### File Format

Files contain metadata that describe their provenance, but also have
this information embedded in the file name itself. The general format
is:

```
<Type>@<Adjective>-<RowNamespace>_to_<ColNamespace>@<Authority>@<Version>.mtx
# for example:
Map@EntrezGene_to_EnsemblGene@HGNC@2017-07-26.mtx
```

The fields are:

* `<Type>` = Type of Matrix, generally Map or Ontology
* `<Adjective>-` = __OPTIONAL__ adjective modifying the namespace
  conversion. This is primarily anticipated to be a species identifier
  such as "Human" or "Mouse", eg "Human-EntrezGene_to_EnsemblGene"
* `<RowNamespace>` = namespace of the row identifiers
* `<ColNamespace>` = namespace of the column identifiers
* `<Authority>` = Entity providing the raw data
* `<Version>` = Version token (eg GRCh37) or YYYY-MM-DD of source file(s)

So for `Map@EntrezGene_to_EnsemblGene@HGNC@2017-07-26.mtx`, this is an
identifier Map (enabling conversion from one namespace to the other)
utilizing data provided by the HGNC on `2017-07-26`, mapping between
EntrezGene IDs and EnsemblGene IDs.

Yes, `@` is a little odd - it was chosen as a field separator because:

* It is legal in file names on both Windows and *nix systems
* It is unlikely to appear within the values of any fields, in
  particular the <Version> field, which for genome builds taps into a
  wide array of characters

### Directory structure

The generators will build a directory structure along the following
lines, where `<dir>` is the directory specified by your -dir
parameter.

```
<dir>/
  byAuthority/
    HGNC/
      2017-01-01/
        # files
    Entrez/
      2017-02-03/
        # files
  byNamespace
    EntrezGene/
      EnsemblGene/
        # symlinks to ../../../byAuthority
      RGD/
        # symlinks to ../../../byAuthority
    RGD/
      EntrezGene/
        # symlinks to ../../../byAuthority

```

